Hello and welcome back.
Of course and part VI in the series of tural We played around with the layout of the tool and I hope
you had some time to explore it a bit further on your own.
And now that you're getting a bit more comfortable with how this all works.
And today we're going to learn a new technique that will help us solve the challenge for this section.
So let's go ahead and creating your page by clicking the plus sign are here.
And before we do anything else let's just quickly save our words so we're going to click the dropdown
menu here select Save As and so the folder where you want to say.
And here I'm just going to save it as a section too.
So it's just good practice to save your work.
Now you can just press control on your keyboard like that and that way your progress won't be lost.
All right.
So what do we want to do now.
We want to explore a drilling in two hierarchies and drilling out of them and say unique feature for
Part B.
So let's have a look.
We're going to take order date drag it onto our new page and then we're going to take units and drag
it onto the page as well.
And so what we get is a bar chart.
So let's actually select this bar chart over here.
If you didn't get a barge or if you got a table.
Same thing just like the Bartsch or I can over there.
Let's expand this and now what you'll see is we've got two years 2014 and 2015 and that's because that
is how our deficit is structured.
We've got that if you go here you've got sales starting from July 2014 and they go all the way to June
2015.
So in some countries such as Australia this is a financial year it starts on the 1st of July it ends
on the 30th of June of the following year and hence this dataset is like that.
So it's it's a bit different to a calendar year but still has those 12 months has just shifted by six
months.
So this is one financial year of data in here and that's how it is structured and that's why all that
just confirms that our nation is presenting the correct results.
We've got 2014 entry.
Now if I click on any one of these as you can see nothing happens it just gets highlighted.
But what we can do is we can tell power that we want to drill into our data and there's a couple of
ways of doing it.
First of all at the top here you can see drill.
So once we've got this chart selected if I just click somewhere on the on the space around that then
that menu disappears.
If I just like the chart you've got this option drill.
So let's go ahead and click there and you can see a couple of options available to you.
So today we're going to explore this option and drill down.
You can see it here or the other way you can do it is you can select it over here so they both do the
same thing as you can see this one gets depressed when you press it here or to check that and I press
this one.
This one gets suppressed.
And basically that changes the behavior that this chart is going to exhibit when you select different
elements of the chart.
So now if I select 2014 watch what happens once have selected 2014 what happened is we went into 2014.
We've got quarter three and quarter for here of 2014 is the core 3.
Now we have three months July August September so I'm drilling in to the chart.
And now if I go into July I actually have the dates I have the fourth the 12 the 21st to.
That's when those units were sold and I can see exactly how many units on the 29th of July of quarter
3 of 2014 81 units were sold.
And here you can see how far we've drilled in on into year quarter month and day.
And this allows us to really get a granular view of the dataset and very very powerful feature something
quite unique to power be-I.
And if you want to go back up you just click the drill button over here so you don't have to press on
the chart anymore because it's you don't need to specify where you want to drill up.
So a power guy knows exactly where draw lot.
It just goes back to the previous level or you can press this button here drill up back over here.
So there we go that's how drilling works.
Let's try another way let's say 2015 but it's sort of caught a while as they want to look at quarter
to anyone to look at may see as we can as we saw previously we drilled into this quarter and here into
this actual month into May.
And here again there were five days when there were actual sales.
So in the fifth 90 units were sold in the 14th 22nd and the first and you can confirm that if you can.
If you go to the data set let's just quickly go to our data set and look at May 2015 and this should
be only 5 dates.
Go here and we scroll down.
May 2015.
So that's these columns over here.
So that's this call on the row this row this row and the stroke and as you can see exactly those five
14:22 and 31.
And if we go and look at June there should be only three days when there were cells.
If you go back up and then you go into June you'll see this three days.
And if you want to stop at some point if you don't want to drill in you want to just work with a certain
part of your chart so you're viz..
So you want to leave it at this and you just uncheck this drilling functionality and you won't be drilling
in anymore.
So I'm going I'm just going to return back to the overall view and that's how you drill in and drill
out in power be-I I highly recommend that you play around with this little bit.
And for example explore color of one of 2015 or quarter four of 2014 and see how many units were sold
in one of those days in one of those months and then just compared with the data source and I'll see
you back here on the next tutorial.
Until then happy analyzing.